<!-- Don't remove -->
<a name="top"/>

# Mock Interviews

A mock interview session hosted by UWB ACM for the final Cracking 
the Coding Interview workshop of Fall 2019.

### Table of Contents

* [Problems](#problems)
  * [Skills Check](#p1)
  * [Behavioral](#p2)
  * [Technical](#p3)
* [Solutions](#solutions)
  * [Technical](#s3)

<!-- Don't remove -->
<a name="problems"/>

## Problems

<a name="p1"/>

### Skills Check (5 Minutes)

How would you explain recursion to a 5-year-old?

Source: Microsoft phone screen

#### Interviewer Notes

Did the candidate:

- [ ] Demonstrate a foundational understanding of recursive processes?
- [ ] Show creativity with analogies?
- [ ] Explain their analogy clearly using language appropriate for the scenario?
- [ ] Confirm with you that you understood their approach, and clarify as needed?

<br/><br/><br/><br/><br/>

<!-- Don't remove -->
Go to [Top](#top)

<!-- Don't remove -->
<a name="p2"/>

### Behavioral Question (5-10 Minutes)

Tell me about a project you've worked on that you are excited about.

#### Interviewer Notes

Follow-up questions to ask:

* Was this an individual project or did you collaborate with others?
* What kind of data structures and algorithms did you use to build this project?
* What other skills did you use in this project?
* What excites you most about this project in particular?

Did the candidate:

- [ ] Clearly demonstrate excitement about the project?
- [ ] Provide adequate context about the project's goals and challenges?
- [ ] Demonstrate thorough technical understanding of this project?
- [ ] Impress you with the project itself?

<br/><br/><br/><br/><br/>

<!-- Don't remove -->
Go to [Top](#top)

<!-- Don't remove -->
<a name="p3"/>

### Technical Question (30+ Minutes)

Source: Google onsite interview, via Lizzy

#### Scenario

You have a tree where each node connection has a "stickiness" value. 
The "stickiness" value indicates how much time it would take for water 
to drip from the parent node to the child node.

Write a function that computes the amount of time it would take for 
the entire tree to be covered in water if water is dumped on the root 
node at `t = 0`.

#### Interviewer Notes

Hints and follow-up questions:

- Don't assume this is a binary tree.
- Consider drawing an example tree and computing the value. What choices do you make to solve the problem?
- Consider a recursive solution.
- How would you represent the edge weights? There are multiple ways to do this.
- How would you generalize this solution for a directed graph?

Did the candidate:

- [ ] Draw out simple examples?
- [ ] Create basic definitions for the classes/structs for `Node` and/or `Edge`?
- [ ] Write a recursive function to find the maximum sum of the paths from root to leaf?
- [ ] Trace through their solution code using a simple example?
- [ ] Address errors they found in their solution?

<br/><br/><br/><br/><br/>
<br/><br/><br/><br/><br/>

<!-- Don't remove -->
Go to [Top](#top)

<!-- Don't remove -->
<a name="solutions"/>

## Solutions

<!-- Don't remove -->
<a name="s3"/>

### Technical Question (30+ Minutes)

Source: Google onsite interview, via Lizzy

#### Class Definitions

To make this solution general for a K-nary tree, we would like to define 
an `Edge` class which associates the edge weight with a child node. 
In this scenario, the `Node` class has a list of `Edge` objects 
representing that node's children.

A class definition might appear as follows:

```python3
class Node:
    def __init__(self, edges):
        self.edges = edges

class Edge:
    def __init__(self, time, node):
        self.weight = time
        self.node = node
```

#### Solution 

To solve this problem, we want to find the maximum of all possible 
routes from root to leaves. 

We can solve this subproblem for a node with only one level of 
descendant children, and return the maximum of the resulting list of 
single-edge routes.

If we can solve this problem for a single-layer tree, we can use this 
process recursively to "bubble up" the maximum value of all tree 
descent patterns.

We might start by writing a method like so:

```python3
def saturation_time(root):
    # base case: current node is a leaf
    if not root or not root.edges:
        return 0
    # construct a list of subtree maximum paths
    l = []
    for e in root.edges:
        l.append(e.weight + saturation_time(e.node))
    # return the maximum of the constructed list
    return max(l)
```

A more Pythonic version might look like:

```python3
def saturation_time_pythonic(root):
    # base case: current node is a leaf
    if not root or not root.edges:
        return 0
    # find maximum of list of subtree paths
    return max([e.weight + saturation_time(e.node) for e in root.edges])
```

#### Application to Directed Graphs

If our `root` parameter represents a generalized graph node instead of 
a tree node, our problem changes slightly. We have to ensure that we 
traverse the graph in its entirety without revisiting previously 
visited nodes, and we want to ensure we find the route with the minimal 
total path weight (weightsum) to any given node, since water will 
saturate nodes by following the fastest path.

To solve the problem, we take the following steps for each node in a 
priority queue:

* The node being inspected (the node of interest) is confirmed to not 
    have been visited previously; if it has been visited already, we 
    move to the next queued item without any further processing.
* Neighbor nodes are added to a priority queue based on the edge weight.
* The cumulative weights of the optimal paths to every node are tracked 
    as we traverse the entire graph; typically, this is done in a map.
* If the current path has a weightsum smaller than the recorded weightsum 
    for the node of interest, the weightsum is updated accordingly.
* The node of interest is marked as visited.

When the priority queue is empty, we know we have completed the traversal, 
and we search our map of cumulative weights for the largest weightsum 
value.

This is, in fact, a special use case for Dijkstra's algorithm. The 
primary distinguishing feature is finding the maximum of the resulting 
weightsum map.

There is one additional edge case we must consider: a disjoint graph, 
where one or more nodes are not reachable from the starting node. This 
is an edge case that should be discussed with your interviewer; some 
practical applications might consider this important, whereas others 
may only be concerned with the reachable nodes.

<!-- Don't remove -->
Go to [Top](#top)
