<!-- Don't remove -->
<a name="top"/>

# Mock Interviews

A mock interview session hosted by UWB ACM for the final Cracking 
the Coding Interview workshop of Fall 2019.

### Table of Contents

* [Problems](#problems)
  * [Skills Check](#p1)
  * [Behavioral](#p2)
  * [Technical](#p3)
* [Solutions](#solutions)
  * [Technical](#s3)

<!-- Don't remove -->
<a name="problems"/>

## Problems

<a name="p1"/>

### Skills Check (5 Minutes)

What is the difference between a queue and a priority queue?

Source: Lizzy

#### Interviewer Notes

Did the candidate:

- [ ] Demonstrate a foundational understanding of queues? Use the term 'FIFO'?
- [ ] Address ordering mechanisms for priority queues?
- [ ] Discuss common applications of either data structure?
- [ ] Discuss time complexity differences between the two?
- [ ] Explain their thinking clearly?
- [ ] Draw examples?

<br/><br/><br/><br/><br/>

<!-- Don't remove -->
Go to [Top](#top)

<!-- Don't remove -->
<a name="p2"/>

### Behavioral Question (5-10 Minutes)

Tell me about a time you were working on a project and you disagreed 
with a colleague. What was the outcome?

#### Interviewer Notes

Follow-up questions to ask:

* Why did you choose to approach the situation in that particular way?
* What would you do differently next time you face a similar scenario?

Did the candidate:

- [ ] Provide context for why there was a disagreement?
- [ ] Explain how the issue was resolved?
- [ ] Demonstrate compromise and collaboration in their answer?
- [ ] Convince you that you would want them on your team in scenarios like this?

<br/><br/><br/><br/><br/>

<!-- Don't remove -->
Go to [Top](#top)

<!-- Don't remove -->
<a name="p3"/>

### Technical Question (30+ Minutes)

Source: CTCI 16.11

#### Scenario

You are building a diving board by placing a bunch of planks of wood 
end-to-end. There are two types of planks, one of length `shorter` and 
one of length `longer`. You must use exactly `K` planks of wood. Write 
a function to generate all possible lengths for the diving board.

#### Interviewer Notes

Hints:

* Consider building a diving board. What are the choices you make?
* Consider a recursive solution.
* Once you have a recursive algorithm, think about the runtime. Can you make this faster? How?
* Consider memoization to optimize the runtime. Think carefully about what exactly you cache. What is the runtime? The runtime is closely related to the max size of the table.
* There's an alternate, clever (and very fast) solution. You can actually do this in linear time without recursion. How?

Did the candidate:

- [ ] Draw out simple examples?
- [ ] Ask clarifying questions about what `shorter` and `longer` are? (Once the candidate asks, you can tell them `shorter` and `longer` are integer arguments, as is `k`.)
- [ ] Consider possible duplicate lengths in a recursive solution, and handle this appropriately?
- [ ] Write a recursive solution?
- [ ] Optimize their recursive solution?
- [ ] Write the optimal solution?

_Note: if time allows, guide the candidate to find all possible solutions (recursive and iterative)._

<br/><br/><br/><br/><br/>
<br/><br/><br/><br/><br/>

<!-- Don't remove -->
Go to [Top](#top)

<!-- Don't remove -->
<a name="solutions"/>

## Solutions

<!-- Don't remove -->
<a name="s3"/>

### Technical Question (30+ Minutes)

Source: CTCI 16.11

#### Naive Recursive Solution 

One way to approach this is to think about the choices we make as we're building a diving board. This leads us to a 
recursive algorithm.

##### Recursive Solution
For a recursive solution, we can imagine ourselves building a diving board. We make `K` decisions, each time choosing 
which plank we will put on next. Once we've put on `K` planks, we have a complete diving board and we can add this to the 
list (assuming we haven't seen this length before).

We can follow this logic to write recursive code. Note that we don't need to track the sequence of planks. All we need 
to know is the current length and the number of planks remaining.

```java
HashSet<Integer> allLengths(int k, int shorter, int longer) {
	HashSet<Integer> lengths = new HashSet<Integer>();
	getAllLengths(k, 0, shorter, longer, lengths);
	return lengths;
}
void getAllLengths(int k, int total, int shorter, int longer, HashSet<Integer> lengths) 
	if (k == 0) {
	    lengths.add(total);
	    return;
	}
	getAllLengths(k - 1, total + shorter, shorter, longer, lengths);
	getAllLengths(k - 1, total + longer, shorter, longer, lengths);
}
```
We've added each length to a hash set. This will automatically prevent adding duplicates.
This algorithm takes `O(2K)` time, since there are two choices at each recursive call and we recurse to a
depth of `K`.

#### Improved Recursive Solution 

As in many recursive algorithms (especially those with exponential runtimes). we can optimize this through memorization
(a form of dynamic programming). 

Observe that some of the recursive calls will be essentially equivalent. For example, picking plank 1 and then plank 2 
is equivalent to picking plank 2 and then plank 1.

Therefore, if we've seen this `(total, plank count)` pair before then we stop this recursive path. We can do this using
a `HashSet` with a key of `(total, plank count)`.

_Note: Many candidates will make a mistake here. Rather than stopping only when they've seen `(total, plank count)`, they'll 
stop whenever they've seen just total before. This is incorrect. Seeing two planks of length 1 is not the same 
thing as one plank of length 2, because there are different numbers of planks remaining. In memoization problems, 
be very careful about what you choose for your key._


The code for this approach is very similar to the earlier approach.

```java
HashSet<Integer> allLengths(int k, int shorter, int longer) {
	HashSet<Integer> lengths = new HashSet<Integer>();
	HashSet<String> visited = new HashSet<String>(); 
	getAllLengths(k, 0, shorter, longer, lengths, visited);
	return lengths;
}	
	
void getAllLengths(int k, int total, int shorter, int longer, HashSet<Integer> lengths, HashSet<String> visited) {
    if (k == 0) {
        lengths.add(total);
        return;
    }
    String key = k + " " + total;
    if (visited.contains(key)) {
        return;
    }
    getAllLengths(k - 1, total + shorter, shorter, longer, lengths, visited);
    getAllLengths(k - 1, total + longer, shorter, longer, lengths, visited);
    visited.add(key);
}
```
For simplicity, we've set the key to be a string representation of total and the current plank count. Some people 
may argue it's better to use a data structure to represent this pair. There are benefits to this, but there are drawbacks
as well. It's worth discussing this tradeoff with your interviewer.

The runtime of this algorithm is a bit tricky to figure out.

One way we can think about the runtime is by understanding that we're basically filling in a table of `SUMS x PLANK 
COUNTS`. The biggest possible sum is `K * LONGER` and the biggest possible plank count is `K`. Therefore, the runtime 
will be no worse than `O(K 2 * LONGER)`.

Of course, a bunch of those sums will never actually be reached. How many unique sums can we get? Observe that any path 
with the same number of each type of planks will have the same sum. Since we can have at most `K` planks of each type, 
there are only `K` different sums we can make. Therefore, the table is really `KxK`, and the runtime is `O(K^2)`.


#### Optimal Solution

If you re-read the prior paragraph, you might notice something interesting. There are only K distinct sums
we can get. Isn't that the whole point of the problem-to find all possible sums?

We don't actually need to go through all arrangements of planks. We just need to go through all unique sets of `K` planks 
(sets, not orders!). There are only `K` ways of picking `K` planks if we only have two possible types: {OoftypeA, KoftypeB},
{1 of type A, K-1 of type B}, {2 of type A,K-2 of type B},...

This can be done in just a simple for loop. At each "sequence'; we just compute the sum.

```java
HashSet<Integer> allLengths(int k, int shorter, int longer) {
	HashSet<Integer> lengths = new HashSet<Integer>();
	for (int nShorter = 0; nShorter <= k; nShorter++) {
	    int nLonger = k - nShorter;
	    int length = nShorter * shorter + nLonger * longer;
	    lengths.add(length);
	}
	return lengths;
}
```

We've used a Ha shSet here for consistency with the prior solutions. This isn't really necessary though, since we 
should'nt get any duplicates. We could instead use an ArrayList. lf we do this, though, we just need to 
handle an edge case where the two types of planks are the same length. In this case, we would just return an ArrayList 
of size 1.
#### Testing The Solutions
```
Testcase 1:
Input: k = 2, shorter = 1, longer = 3
Expected Output: [2, 4, 6]

Testcase 2:
Input: k = 5, shorter = 2, longer = 4
Expected Output: [16, 18, 20, 10, 12, 14]

Testcase 3:
Input: k = 4, shorter = 5, longer = 9
Expected Output: [32, 20, 36, 24, 28]

Testcase 4:
Input: k = 12, shorter = 3, longer = 8
Expected Output: [64, 96, 68, 100, 72, 104, 76, 108, 80, 84, 88, 60, 92]

```

[The java solution is here.](./diving_board_solution/Driver.java)

<!-- Don't remove -->
Go to [Top](#top)
